# Solid Foundation ReadMe
### Tower building game designed by Iona Tramelli and Jaylyn Henegar 

## The Project
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The goal for this project was to design an activity geared towards kids that would be a part of the Bible memorization app that is currently in development. We developed an application using HTML, JavaScript, and CSS that is designed to work on both a computer and a phone, as the application is designed to work with both mouse and touch movement.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The application is, at its core, an unscrambling game where the user puts the pieces of the verse in order. The verse is broken up into either words or phrases, depending on the chosen level of difficulty, and a word bank with the chunks of verse is created. The user drags the word bubbles from the word bank into the dropbox at the bottom of the screen. If the correct bubble is placed in the box, then the words glow green and no other words are allowed into that box. If the incorrect bubble is placed in the box, the words glow red and the user is able to replace the incorrect bubble with the correct one. As each bubble is correctly placed, a new box appears underneath the old one, so as the user puts the verse back in order, the verse builds itself up. The score for the game is the number of bubbles that are correctly placed on the first try over the total number of bubbles. Another important feature is a reveal answer button that the user can use to see the answer to the puzzle as a means to help if they become stuck. At the end of the game, a window with the verse and score appears. This window also gives the user the option to change the difficulty, return to the options, or play again.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Another feature of this application is that not only is there a default mode, as described above, but also an additional five modes of gameplay that build off of the default original mode. The time track mode adds a stopwatch to the gamescreen that tracks how long it takes the user to complete the entirety of the activity and displays the resulting time on the end of game window. The countdown mode starts by displaying a popup window allowing the user to chose the length of time for the countdown and then adds a countdown to the game, ending the game if the user does not complete the activity on time. If the user is able to complete the activity in the timeframe, the remaining time left is displayed on the end game screen. The reversed mode allows the user to build up the tower starting from the end of the verse at the bottom of the screen to the beginning of the verse at the top of the screen by adding new dropboxes on top of the previously displayed boxes. The extra words mode adds extra words that could be found in the Bible, but are not found in the verse to the word bank to add and extra layer of challenge. This mode can only be played in difficulty level 3 where there are individual words. The sudden death mode removes the reveal answer button and resets the game every time the user gets a word wrong. The scoring for this mode is tracked by the number of attempts taken to build the whole verse without mistakes.

## The Why Behind It
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The project was inspired by Matthew 7:24-27, the parable of the wise man and the foolish man building their houses on rock and sand. The foolish man's house built on sand is destroyed in a storm due to its lack of a firm foundation while the wise man's house, which is built on rock, stands firm through the storm. God's words, the very ones written in the Bible, are our foundation and when we build our life upon those words and the practice of them, we will not be shaken or destroyed by the storms of life. The idea behind the project is that the verse becomes a rock as the correct pieces are put into place, symbolizing how God's word is our Solid Foundation.
> "I have hidden your word in my heart that I might not sin against you." (Psalm 119:11) 

## How it Works
- [The Desgin](./TechnicalDocuments/DesignDoc.md)
- [The Functionality](./TechnicalDocuments/TechnicalDoc.md)